Hi all!

I've been writing on a new demosystem for our Amiga-Demos/Intros for a while
and have now reached a point where i feel to make it a little public.

I would like to hear your statements, esp. from you coders, as it is
intended to ease our way of putting together our productions.



******* Goals and problems

My main goals were:
 - to code each effect on his own (as it is possible with Nuts as well)
 - to make the system useable not only on ASM-One but also on other assemblers
   (I've tried it with O.M.A. and my test-effects assembled right there)
 - to give us the possibility to work together (also with Darken :) 


Further goals are:
 - to make onefile intros (no probs here, just haven't done it, yet)
 - to make .exe / .dat multiload demos (like The Gate)
 - to make onefile-multiload demos with overlay-hunks (like nothing before)
 - to make a header which integrates WOS-effects into Nuts.
 - to generate more screenmodes (18 Bit , optimised 6 bpl , ...)
 - to support Cybergraphics screens totally transparent for the effect
 - to add screenwipes for more interesting transitions
 - to make a Trackloader (not really, but it is possible!)
 - to maybe make it a linkable object, but i haven't done such things, yet


My biggest problems were/are:
 - the reloction of the effects (solved now)
 - the overlay multiload system (but i have some more docs now)



******* Overview

Wicked OS (Wicked has been my first, selffounded group in 1991)
is a client-server demo/intro-system which enables different coders to work
on the same project. They just code their effects on their own and link them
to one of the above described productions afterwards (and hopefully without
problems). If offers a set of routines which are called via Macros and handles
all this stuff like systemkilling/reenabling, displays and musics.
It loads/links the effect as binaries (but you could also link them as source)
and thus you don't have to care about the labels of the other effects.

The good thing is that all those basic routines (c2p, replay, killer) are 
supplied by the server, the effect-binary just carries its own code/data.
This makes it possible to even link effects to an intro, as there is very
little overhead in a WOS-binary (about 20 bytes). The active effect gets
a (easy to check for) signal when the effect-time is up or LMB,RMB,Escape
is pressed.

The next advantage is that the screenmodes are handled very easy. Currently
there is 320x200 (1x1) , 320x100 (1x2) , 160x100 (2x2) , 640x200 and 640x400.
They are all handled in a transparent manner via Macros, and might as well 
be displayed on a Cybergraphics-Screen (window :) if the effect does not 
need sprites or other Customchip-based features (I therefore intend to ask 
the effect if he is nasty). Currently there is only an AGA hardware-hack 
server which uses Scout's fast chunky2planar-routines with triple-buffering 
but i plan to support Cybergraphics and Multitasking in the long run as well.

On the musical side it currently supports TrackerPacker3.1 and THX1.27
which both work 100% even on MY a4060. I've not included P61 because it bugs
heavily on my machine (even Fastjack's fix bugged yesterday), but I'm 
optimistic to get a really fixed P61-source from the authors of Cyberlogik
some day.



******* Info and question about relocation

As i have written above, i solved the problem with the relocation with 
a few restrictions and would like to hear your statements on this. 

An effect could either have:
 - ONLY fastmem-hunks, but as many as it needs
   (based on a source by LSD)
 - ONE chip and ONE fastmem-hunk (no BSS)
   (based on a source by Roman and Touchstone/Essence)

I don't see a problem, as the server manages all the music and 
screens and blitts and copperlists and therefore an effect should perfectly 
work without chipmem (and use the first way which is more flexible).
I think only linked effects (like Darken codes) will run into trouble
when they need chipmem, as the second way allows only one hunk each.

Unneeded routines won't be assembled into the server, e.g. there won't be
the THX-replay source if we play a TP3 module.



******* Last words

I will post a beta-version of WOS in our mailing-list soon. Since i've heard
that we have a coop with Essence, i'd like you (the coders) to test WOS-beta
and tell me what you miss (and what didn't work). 

I've written WOS because it always took so long to put some effects together, 
and i hope it will help us to make more demos in less time.

I've been asked by 2 polish groups by now, if we could code something for
them. If WOS works out to be practicable, we could accept such "offers".

I'm going to leave germany for 2 weeks now. I thus have very little time
left to code something for Symposium & Mekka 98 / The Gathering.
I'll be away from 19.3. - 5.4.98. I will post WOS before this and I hope you 
find it useable (and use it).

I got myself a new (additional) email-addy: lop@gmx.net
It is routed to my still valid account: l_oppermann@fs1.arch.fh-hannover.de 
but i think it is easier to recall.




Regards,

 - Leif / NoName
